# 1. CICD for Data Engineers in a Super Easy way!

Lets say you are working on a RetailAnalysis Project & have a Jira ticket assigned to you RA-17843

If you are a developer you would create a feature branch,
feature-RA-17843 & work on it.

As soon as you make a git push, and github receives the new code a pipeline should run which involves:

Build - creating a virtual environment & install all the dependencies (In case of python)

Test - Run unit test cases / Quality checks

Package - Create a package, can be a zip of code

Deploy - Send the code bundle to edge node using SCP

If we do all of these manually it will be very time consuming and error prone.

So all of the above steps should run as a automated pipeline step by step.

We can automate it using a automation server such as Jenkins.

So anytime a new branch is created, or a git push happens all of the build -> test -> package -> deploy should run without any manual involvement.

Now Let us understand the branching structure based on different environments which most of the data engineering projects follow.

Feature branches -> Dev -> Test -> UAT -> main (Prod)

Note - In a few companies its just Dev & Prod, so it depends.

Feature branch - where developers codes their new changes.
Dev - Development branch
Test - For QA team to test
UAT - for user acceptance testing
main - this is the production branch

Feature branches are short lived that means once feature branch is merge to a higher branch we can delete it.

All the other branches will be there always.

so when we make a code push to feature branch in github then all the 4 steps in CICD pipeline will run.

If we see all the 4 steps ran fine, then we can raise a pull request to merge our code to Dev branch. once the reviewers see and merges it, the automated pipeline should run again on Dev branch.

Same way when code is merged to Test, UAT & main the pipeline should run.

Most of the companies follow the similar structure for CICD in data engineering projects.

As a data engineer you should not go too deep into it, but you should have a fair idea. Ideally the entire process would be set, you would have to just follow that.

Do mention in comments on what CICD process you follow in your company!

I hope you would have liked the post, I tried my best to explain in simple words.